JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, to our
"NewsHour" Shares, something
that caught our eye that
we thought might be of
interest to you, too.
Boston's inner city often sees
a spike in violence during
the summer, when many students
are out of school
and on the streets.
But as Tina Martin from PBS
station WGBH reports, one mother
is trying to change that trend
by exposing young
people to the outdoors.
TINA MARTIN: Amid trees,
chirping birds and rugged rocks,
it wasn't always easy to do,
but Judith Foster smiles
as she leads her group on a
three-mile walk through the Blue
Hills Reservation in Milton.
The walks are part
of her HERO group.
JUDITH FOSTER, HERO: Healing,
empathy, redemption, oasis.
TINA MARTIN: Foster started
the walks as a way to
heal from her own tragedy.
JUDITH FOSTER: About 8:00 in
the morning or so, I got home
from work, and that was the
news I got home to, that
my son had been murdered.
TINA MARTIN: Four years ago,
Judith's youngest child, Paul,
a senior at a college in North
Carolina, was shot and killed
at a nightclub, just few weeks
before he was set to graduate
with a degree in
computer science.
Paul's murder is still
under investigation.
But during her time of loss and
grief, Judith says she found
solace in walking the Blue
Hills.
JUDITH FOSTER: He had a love
of nature, and I thought by
being doing this, being close
to nature, I would
be close to him.
TINA MARTIN: So, every
Saturday, she invites
people to walk with her.
BAKARI JOHNSON, Walker: We
have to do something to break
the cycle, break the mold.
Nobody would think is
something that would be
fun at the end of the day.
You think nature walk, you are
thinking, oh, come on, this
is some tree hugger stuff.
But, at the end of the
day, anybody can do it
and anybody can enjoy it.
TINA MARTIN:
Twenty-five-year-old Bakari
Johnson uses the walks to
get away from the noise
of the city.
He hopes to keep walking
all summer to stay
away from trouble.
BAKARI JOHNSON: It is a worry,
but, personally, I feel like
I have been not just lucky so
far.
I feel like part of the reason
I'm still here is because
I have also been smart.
JUDITH FOSTER: And
don't be afraid to touch
the trees, the leaves.
PASTOR MARK SCOTT, Co-Chair,
Boston Youth Violence Reduction
Task Force: It's really
simple, right?
What we're doing is
taking a walk in nature,
which is a tremendous
resource that is available
to us.
We're doing it with friends.
TINA MARTIN: Pastor Mark Scott,
co-chair of the Boston Youth
Violence Reduction Task Force,
hopes, as it gets hotter and
violence spikes, young people
will choose to take a few steps
to keep the peace.
PASTOR MARK SCOTT:
We're constantly being
hit and bombarded by
this kind of violence,
and we have to react
to it every time.
But there are things that we
can do, traditions that we can
create, like coming out on 12:00
noon a Saturday to take a
walk in the woods that are
right next to your city.
TINA MARTIN: The HERO group
gets bigger as the weeks go by.
The walks are free
and open to anyone.
Judith believes her
son Paul would approve.
JUDITH FOSTER: He's smiling.
He's loving it.
I find strength in knowing
that I'm doing something
that he loved to do.
TINA MARTIN: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Tina Martin
in Milton, Massachusetts.